In distributed systems, programs running on two or more computers work towards
a common goal. If security and reliability aspects are critical to reaching
that goal, these programs must trust each other to actually cooperate and not
work against the common goal. This trust can be established, if two
preconditions hold:

1) The communication channels between the cooperating programs must be secure,
   such that they can cooperate in the first place and without interference
   from outside. The Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol solves the
   problem of securing communication channels in distributed systems.

2) The participating programs must function correctly and as intended. Remote
   attestation is a technology from the field of Trusted Computing that allows
   to identify what software is running on a remote computer system and that
   the integrity of that software is preserved. Additionally, remote
   attestation provides secure identification of the remote system. Based on
   the identity both the software and its execution environment, a decision
   can be made if trust in the remote system is warranted.

In this task, Remote Attestation based on a Trusted Platform Module (TPM)
shall be integrated with a TLS library. The goal is that TLS checks not just
the possession of private keys for server and/or client certificates, but that
the identity of the remote software and computer system is considered as well.

An important secondary goal of this task is to keep modifications to the TLS
protocol (if any) and the implementation of the TLS library small and
non-invasive. Ideally, the design of the integrated solution should be
modular. At least in principle, it should be possible to adapt it to use not
only TPMs, but other hardware trust anchors that are based on similar
concepts.

A prototype implementation based on TPMs shall be developed and key
performance aspects evaluated (e.g., how long it takes to establish a
connection and do the necessary identity checks, etc.). Additionally, the
complexity of the integration shall be evaluated, for example, with regard to
maintainability. Organizational aspects (e.g., necessary changes in key or
certificate management) should be considered as well.
